# repository for matlab codes of some standard techniques

## Cross-validation code for MATLAB (files required: crossvalidation.m blocking.m)
`function[optpara] = crossvalidation(foldabledata,otherpara,parameterlist,train_func,test_func, prfrmncePara,fold)`

 `foldabledata`: An array of size (1 x Number of Classes), at each index a 2-dim array of input samples having features and the target value is kept in the structure's data member `data`
 Example: `foldabledata(1).data=[rand(100,4) 2*ones(100,1)]`
  
`fold`: parameter k of k-fold cross-validation
Example: `fold=5` for 5-fold cross-validation

`parameterlist`: An array of structures of parameters. The optimal value of these parameters needs to be found by grid search over all possible combinations of the parameter values using k-fold cross-validation by minimising val.err
Example: `parameterlist(1).values = [1,2,3]; parameterlist(2).values = [4,7,8,3];`

`otherpara`: structure having all other required parameters be passed to trainfunc or testfunc functions. These parameters do not play any role in cross-validation. These will be passed exactly in the same way. 
-----------------------------------------------------------
`train_func`: handle to train function returns out structure which will be feeded to testfunc. out structure keeps all the information generated during training the model and is required to generate predictions.
The train_func should follow following prototype:
         `[Mdl] = train_func(trainfold,otherpara,parameter)`
where `trainfold`: is exactly of the same type as that of `foldabledata`
          `otherpara`: same as that of `otherpara `of `crossvalidation`
          `parameter`: is an array of hyperparameter values. The order will be exactly the same as that of `parameterlist`, example: `parameter = [parameterlist(1).value(1), parameterlist(2).value(1),...]`
           -----------------------------------------------------
         `Mdl`: A structure containing all the information generated by train_func but required by the prediction function to generate a prediction on a given test sample. 

`test_func`: handle to predict function, returns structure containing an PC field, considered for predicted value and act field for actual target values. It should have following prototype
           `[res] = test_func(trainfold,testfold,parameter,Mdl,otherpara);`
           `trainfold, testfold`: has same structure as that of `foldabledata`
           `parameter`: is an array of hyperparameter values. The order will be exactly the same as that of parameterlist, example: `parameter = [parameterlist(1).value(1), parameterlist(2).value(1),...]`
           `Mdl`: An structure containing all the information generated by train_func but required by prediction function to generate prediction on a given test sample. 
           `otherpara`: same as that of `otherpara `of cross-validation
           -----------------------------------------------------
           `res`: is a structure with two fields. `act `for the actual value of the target variable and `PC `for the predicted value of the target variable.

`prfrmncePara`: handle to performance parameter evaluation function on  the lower value of which hyperparameter is tuned. It should output a structure with an attribute `err `treated as error. It should have following prototype:
           `[val] = prfrmncePara(act,PC)`
           where `act` for the actual value of the target variable and `PC` for the predicted value of the target variable.
           -------------------------------   
           `val` is a structure with `err` as one of the attribute. Hyperparameters will be chosen by minimising this value 
---------------------------------------------------------
Output Parameter:
`optpara.parameter` - structure that keeps parameter values asked to tuned for
`optpara.error` -structure that keeps values of error corresponding to each specific set of parameter values asked to tuned for 

---------------------------------------------------------
Author: Kapil 
Affiliation: Department of Computer Applications, NIT Kurukshetra
Email: kapil@nitkkr.ac.in
